Add documentation for onboarding an LP into CR (#46)
CSPI-QE/ocp-ci-docs: docs/OCP_CI_Tutorials/Reporting/Reporting_Guide.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ci-operator/config/windup/windup-ui-tests/windup-windup-ui-tests-main-lp-interop.yaml`: Will be reported because `-lp-interop` is in the filename.
- `ci-operator/config/windup/windup-ui-tests/windup-windup-ui-tests-main.yaml`: Will NOT get reported because `-lp-interop` is not found in the filename.
- `ci-operator/config/windup/windup-ui-tests/windup-windup-ui-tests-main__ocp412-mtr-123-lp-interop.yaml`: Will be reported because `-lp-interop` is found in the filename.
```

Reviewer: Add a verification and/or validation step for each section  if needed (e.g., "Use /pj-rehearse to verify Slack before merging")

Author: This will not be done by an agent (i.e., manage and operate the PR lifecycle), so I avoid adding repository-specific information.

### How do I Report Jobs to TestGrid?

We have been able to eliminate a manual process for reporting CI Operator Jobs to TestGrid. The most important thing to know about how CI Operator Jobs are reported to the `-lp-interop` dashboards in TestGrid is that the automation that makes it happen looks for the unique identifier `-lp-interop` in the name of the Prow job.

> As you may have read in other documents in this repository, you will need to append `-lp-interop` to the end of of your configuration file's filename when you create it. When we create configuration files in OpenShift CI, as you may know, the format for the filenames is `{GitHub Organization}-{GitHub Repository}-{Branch}__****.yaml`. After the `{Branch}` section of the filename, anything can be appended to the end. The text appended to the end is called a "variant". The use of variants will come in handy if we test multiple versions of a layered product or of OpenShift. Please add `-lp-interop` to the "variant" section of the filename.

Reviewer: double `of of`

Reviewer 2: This PR scope supposedly only on the CR onboarding section. I think @oharan2 AI agent probably wasn't scoped properly and modify non-CR related section.

But since it's already modified, might as well fix it. Thx.

### How to Setup Slack Alerts for a Scenario

1. In the [openshift/release](https://github.com/openshift/release) repository, after you have created a CI configuration file for your scenario in the `ci-operator/config/...` directory and ran the `make update` or `make jobs` command, you should be able to find a CI Operator Job file for your CI configuration generated under `ci-operator/jobs/....`. Find the CI Operator Job file that ends in `-periodics.yaml` and open it.
2. This file may contain multiple periodic CI Operator Jobs for the same repository, so find the periodic CI Operator Job that matches the CI configuration you'd like alerts for. If you are working with layered product interop testing, the CI Operator Job name should include `-lp-interop`. In this example, the CI Operator Job name is `periodic-ci-windup-windup-ui-tests-v1.0-mtr-ocp4.13-lp-interop-mtr-interop-aws`.

> 3. Add a reporter_config stanza, replace the `channel:` value with the channel you're PQE team would like to use and update the `report_template:` with a different message (if you'd like to, this one is very generic and will work in most cases):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add a reporter_config stanza, replace the `channel:` value with the channel your PQE team would like to use and update the `report_template:` with a different message (if you'd like to, this one is very generic and will work in most cases):
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed.

     - This value always defaults to the stage server to avoid unwanted bugs.
   - `FIREWATCH_DEFAULT_JIRA_ADDITIONAL_LABELS` : Adding the following 3 labels to every firewatch config step: `["<ocp-version>-lp","<platform-name>-lp","<scenario-short-name-lp>"]`

Please see [this PR](https://github.com/openshift/release/pull/39700/files) as an example of how to add these values to your CI Operator Job configuration.

> **IMPORTANT**
>
> When defining the `FIREWATCH_CONFIG` variable, please try to cover every step that is executed during your CI Operator Job, you can view the steps that are run by going to a recent run of your CI Operator Job and viewing the artifacts. Each step should have a folder for it's artifacts and logs that you can use to build your config. If you happen to miss one of the steps and a failure occurs in that step, it will cause the failure to not match any of the rules in the config. In that case, a generic bug for the failure will be filed in the `FIREWATCH_DEFAULT_JIRA_PROJECT` project.

## Component Readiness

> This section explains how layered-product results appear in **[Component Readiness](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main)** (CR), a Sippy-based tool where LP Interop test historical health is tracked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section explains how Layered Product (LP) CI Operator Job run results appear in **[Component Readiness](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main)** (CR), a Sippy-based tool where LP Interop test historical health is tracked.
```

### General information

> - **LP Interop Component Readiness view:** The Layered Product (LP) Interop Dashboard View is named `<OCPRelease>-LP-Interop`, where `<OCPRelease>` is the OpenShift Minor Release the LPs are installed on (Sippy groups the Dashboard View based on the OpenShift Core Platform (OCP) y-stream releases). For example, `OCP 4.22` based LPs will have Dashboard View named as `4.22-LP-Interop`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **LP Interop Component Readiness view:** The LP Interop Dashboard View is named `<OCPRelease>-LP-Interop`, where `<OCPRelease>` is the OpenShift Minor Release the LPs are installed on (Sippy groups the Dashboard View based on the OpenShift Core Platform (OCP) y-stream releases). For example, `OCP 4.22` based LPs will have Dashboard View named as `4.22-LP-Interop`.
```

  - **Release rotation:** When a new OpenShift Minor Release is shipped, the Release Team (TRT) adds the matching `<ocpMinorRelease>-LP-Interop` entry to `config/views.yaml` automatically.
- **Maintainers:** Sippy and CR are maintained by TRT. Use `#forum-ocp-release-oversight` on Slack to contact them.

To properly configure the CI Operator configuration for a CI Operator Job so that it is parsed by CR correctly, please refer to [Make a Job CR-Compliant](../Scenario_Development/Scenario_Development_Guide.md#make-a-job-cr-compliant) in the Scenario Development Guide.

### Sippy

This checklist covers the changes required in [Sippy](https://github.com/openshift/sippy) to onboard a CI Operator Job for a new LP.

---

#### Prerequisites: gather required information

1. **JUnit Test Suite (TS) name prefix**: Identify the TS name prefix in the JUnit results produced by the CI Operator Job. See [Map the JUnit tests output](../Scenario_Development/Scenario_Development_Guide.md#map-the-junit-tests-output) in the Scenario Development Guide on how to add the prefix if the actual tests do not produce a TS with a consistent prefix.

> 2. **Stable substring of periodic CI Operator Job name**: Within the [openshift/release](https://github.com/openshift/release/) GitHub Repository, under CI Jobs `periodics` files (`ci-operator/jobs/**/*-periodics.yaml`), identify a stable substring present in the relevant `periodics[].name` value (e.g. `-lp-interop-cr-my-comp`). The CR Variant Registry matches **literal substrings** on the lowercased CI Operator Job name (first match wins). 

Reviewer 2: I believe the Sippy/CR will process all CI Job Types. The filter is only based on substring match, so it will also match other CI Operator Job Types, such as pre-merge and post-merge, not only periodic Jobs. Remove ALL reference to "periodic".
```suggestion
2. **Stable substring of CI Operator Job name**: Within the [openshift/release](https://github.com/openshift/release/) GitHub Repository, under CI Jobs  (`ci-operator/jobs/**/*.yaml`), identify a stable substring present in the relevant `periodics[].name` value (e.g. `-lp-interop-cr-my-comp`). The CR Variant Registry matches **literal substrings** on the lowercased CI Operator Job name (first match wins). 
```

Author: I disagree, first of all, the referral to periodic is used across all of this document, this is a consistent terminology.
Second of all, see the following AI response:

> Yes, in addition to periodic jobs, there are two other main types of jobs: presubmits and postsubmits
> 
> - Presubmit jobs: These are triggered by a push to a pull request (PR) and target a single PR merged into its targeting branch. They run every time a PR is opened or modified and are used to test commits within a PR before they are merged
> 
> -  Postsubmit jobs: These are triggered by a push or a merge to a branch and target a user-specified set of branches. They run right after a PR has been merged and are used for running integration tests or promoting newly built artifacts
> 
> Internally, job types are generally classified as either "periodic" or "pull"
> There are also older "template-style" jobs that begin with prefixes like "release" or "promote", but these are mostly no longer used

The `presubmits` job isn't relevant for the Layered Product tests results. 

Also, specifically for `postsubmits`, their name isn't relevant for this type of use case; see [this ref](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/285c896f9148e65e1f7e3fe0a08b45c1399bb524/ci-operator/jobs/oadp-qe/oadp-apps-deployer/oadp-qe-oadp-apps-deployer-interop-postsubmits.yaml#L19), setting an interop job post submit with the name:
`branch-ci-oadp-qe-oadp-apps-deployer-interop-images`, which isn't relevant for this substring case.

In addition, to serve the best guidance as a doc, we need to give the most specific way possible of how to fetch a valid substring, and give the best consistent source.

---

#### 1. Allow importing tests: `pkg/db/suites.go`

**File:** [pkg/db/suites.go](https://github.com/openshift/sippy/blob/main/pkg/db/suites.go)

> **Slices:** **`testSuitePatterns`** (`[]*regexp.Regexp`) and **`testSuites`** (`[]string`)

Reviewer 2: Why the `testSuites`, when we are no longer plan to use it? It's much simple if the doc. just describe our latest way.

Rather that say `Slices`, may be say `Variable`???

> For **standard LP interop onboarding**, **do not** add product-specific suite strings to **`testSuites`**. Instead, rely on **`testSuitePatterns`**: ensure every suite-name prefix CI produces is covered by a regex. Current upstream patterns already include LP-oriented patterns such as `^lp-chaos--`, `^lp-interop--`, and `^lp-ocp-compat--` (see `testSuitePatterns` in [suites.go](https://github.com/openshift/sippy/blob/main/pkg/db/suites.go#L80)). As long as your CI output follows the `^lp-ocp-compat--` pattern, no new entry is required in this file.

Reviewer 2: When we uses branch name, instead of SHA, we should not anchors to go to specific line no. Next commit on the branch may render the link invalid if it causes line no. change of the specific target line.

If anchor is desired, then use specific SHA, instead of branch, and say `for ex., ...`, other wise just give the function name and un-anchored URL. Even this it still have low risk of link become invalid, if the refactor of that file involve function name change or even source file rename.

Also still contains reference to 2nd party: `... As long as you CI....`. Please double check your AI instruction on multi-agent review iteration.

- **New prefix family:** If CI introduces suite names that **do not** match any existing pattern, add **`regexp.MustCompile(...)`** to **`testSuitePatterns`** rather than enumerating literals.

> - **`testSuites` literals:** Still used for selected **legacy or non-regex** suite names (upstream examples include component-style entries such as `CNV-lp-interop`). Current onboarding routine does **not** touch this list.

Reviewer 2: Remove. Keep the doc. leans. Don't bother describing things this doc. doesn't even utilize.
```suggestion
```

> - **ci-test-mapping:** Keep **`Matchers`** (**`Suite`** / **`SuiteRegEx`**) aligned with the suite strings CI actually produces; Sippy import coverage is via **`testSuitePatterns`**, not by duplicating every suite string in **`testSuites`**.

Reviewer 2: Can we please stick with 1 formatting? Using both strong (`**...**`) and fixed-char (\`...\`) is really over do it. Let's use fixed-cha (less meta-chars).

Is this really produced with AI using the constraint? Using "suite", instead of "TS" or "Test Suite" as has been established earlier, is quit worrying if AI stll produce this after constraint are given.

The statement about "Sippy import coverage" is not quite accurate. Current wording indicates, its limitation from Sippy. I think we should remove the whole reference about this, just purely concentrate on the the latest way, i.e. using RegEx. There is no need to explain why this is chosen instead of a rigid substring match.

Suites that match **neither** patterns **nor** the explicit list are **not** imported into Sippy's DB.

---

#### 2. Map CI Operator Job names to `LayeredProduct`: `pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go`

**File:** `pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go`

> **Function:** `setLayeredProduct`

Reviewer 2: Maintain consistency. Earlier section render to different line. This one render to single lime.
```suggestion
**File:** `pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go`

**Function:** `setLayeredProduct`
```

Why not use link like in prev. section?
I think it's more accurate to say `**Variable:** `layeredProductPatterns` in function `setLayeredProduct()`. Check with AI.

In the `setLayeredProduct` function, append a new row to the mapping table that links CI Operator Job periodic name substrings to the corresponding `LayeredProduct` variant:

```go

> {"-lp-interop-cr-my-comp", "lp-interop-my-comp"},

Reviewer 2: Always start and end with `-` for a more reliable substring match, unless we are specifically trying to match the suffix—which we should actively avoid as it is unreliable.
```suggestion
{"-lp-interop-cr-my-comp-", "lp-interop-my-comp"},
```

We should explain what the left and right elements represent here, so that when they are referred to later, the reader clearly understands which one is the `product` and which one is the `substring`.

```

**Rules:**

- **`product` value:** always use the **`lp-interop-…`** form (lowercase, hyphenated), e.g. `lp-interop-my-comp`. This is what Component Readiness views filter on.
- **`substring`:** must appear in real periodic CI Operator Job names after lowercasing. Align with CI naming (often `-lp-interop-cr-my-comp`).
  - Additionally, if **multiple** branches are required for the same product, **the more specific patterns** should be preferred over the more general patterns (e.g., `-lp-interop-cr-acs` and `-lp-interop-cr-acs-latest`).

> - **Order matters:** the slice is scanned **top to bottom**; the **first** match wins. Place **narrow** patterns (e.g. product-specific) **above** broad patterns so LP Interop CI Operator Jobs are not misclassified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Order matters:** the slice is scanned top to bottom; the **first** match wins. Place narrower patterns (e.g. product-specific) above broader patterns.
```

> **WARNING** (`pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go`, `setLayeredProduct`)
>
> Because the mapping table is evaluated in **slice order**, the first successful substring match stops further evaluation for that CI Operator Job (next rows are ignored).

> > Do not append a specific LP row below a broader row that could match the same name (e.g., placing `{"-lp-interop-cnv", "virt"}` below a generic `{"-virt", "virt"}`). Misordering results in CI Operator Jobs being "swallowed" by generic categories, causes them to be misclassified and correspond to the wrong component in the Component Readiness interop dashboard.

Reviewer 2: We already said that `Order matters`, there is no need to have this WARNING section. If necessary, describe a it details in the above section. Let's not keep repeating essentially same information.

> **Optional (IBM / on-prem style CI Operator Job names):** When CI Operator Jobs include `-ibm` / `-ibmcloud` and those CI Operator Jobs should appear alongside bare metal in platform filtering, confirm `setPlatform` includes the `{"-ibm", "metal"}` mapping (or add it if the branch lacks it). That step is **independent** of lp-interop onboarding but determines whether the **Platform** filter lists those CI Operator Jobs.

Reviewer 2: This is about CR onboarding. how significant is this information? Also I have a hard time to understand this nor the context of this.

---

#### 3. Include the product in LP-Interop views: `config/views.yaml`

**File:** `config/views.yaml`

For each Component Readiness view named like **`*-LP-Interop`** (e.g. `4.22-LP-Interop`, `4.21-LP-Interop`) that lists layered products under:

```yaml
variant_options:
  include_variants:
    LayeredProduct:
      - lp-interop-...
```

add:

```yaml
      - lp-interop-my-comp
```

Use the **same string** as in `setLayeredProduct`'s `product` field. Keep the list **alphabetically sorted** unless the file already uses a different convention for that block.

> **Note:** Some older views (for example certain `4.20-*` LP views) list only a subset of products. Add the product entry only alongside blocks where other `lp-interop-*` products already appear.

Reviewer 2: Does this really matter? If the reason for this situation is simply that the view has fewer onboarded LPs, I don't see how this line contributes a meaningful outcome.

---

> #### 4. Make Variant Snapshot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### 4. Update Variant Snapshot
```

**Test:** `TestVariantsSnapshot` in `pkg/variantregistry/ocp_test.go` validates live variants for all CI Operator Jobs in `config/openshift.yaml` against a static baseline in **`pkg/variantregistry/snapshot.yaml`**.

> After **any** change to variant logic in `pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go` (including `setLayeredProduct` / `setPlatform`), that snapshot **must** be regenerated or the test will fail.

Reviewer 2: Does this information actually useful to reader?

> Run the command below **after** the Go changes are merged or applied locally:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the command below **after** all the above changes has been applied:
```

```bash
make update-variants
```

What this command does: it compiles the `./sippy` binary and executes a snapshot refresh:

```bash
./sippy variants snapshot --config ./config/openshift.yaml

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```bash
make update-variants    # Build `./sippy` executable.
./sippy variants snapshot --config ./config/openshift.yaml
```
````

This process overwrites `pkg/variantregistry/snapshot.yaml` with the updated classification data.

> [!NOTE]
> It is expected that snapshot tests will fail in CI until the execution of the `make update-variants` sync command.

#### Summary checklist

1. **`pkg/db/suites.go`:** Confirm **`testSuitePatterns`** covers your JUnit suite prefixes (upstream LP defaults include `^lp-ocp-compat--`, `^lp-interop--`, `^lp-chaos--`); add **`regexp.MustCompile`** only if CI uses a **new** prefix. Do **not** add per-product suite literals to **`testSuites`** for standard mapped names.
2. **`pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go`:** Add `setLayeredProduct` CI Operator Job-name substring to **`LayeredProduct`** (example **`lp-interop-my-comp`**). Place narrow patterns above broad ones.
3. **`config/views.yaml`:** Add `lp-interop-my-comp` to `*-LP-Interop` views' `LayeredProduct`.

> 4. Run **`make update-variants`** after variant changes.

Reviewer 2: I'm not convinced that this is needed. Sometimes, less is more.

### CI Test Mapping

This checklist covers the changes required in the [openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping](https://github.com/openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping) repository to onboard a CI Operator Job into Component Readiness.

> The steps below add a new **layered product interop** component to that repository. Component Readiness maps each test to one **component** and optional **capabilities**. LP interop CI Operator Jobs publish JUnit with a dedicated mapped **test suite** name produced from `DR__RP__CR_COMP_NAME`: pattern **`lp-ocp-compat--<lpProductName>`**.

Reviewer 2: Consistency please. And out of where referring to an Env. Var. is confusing. Please give the proper context to the Env. Var. or remove it.
```suggestion
The steps below add a new `LP Interop` component to that repository. Component Readiness maps each test to one `component` and optional `capabilities`. LP Interop CI Operator Jobs need to publish JUnit with TS names prefixed by certain pattern e.g, `lp-ocp-compat--<lpProductName>`.
 ...putContextAboutTheEnvVar...
```

Replace placeholders below:

- **`lp-ocp-compat--MyProduct`:** exact mapped JUnit **suite** string from CI (must match `DR__RP__CR_COMP_NAME` / `includeSuitePatterns` / `Matchers`; see [Map the JUnit tests output](../Scenario_Development/Scenario_Development_Guide.md#map-the-junit-tests-output)).
- **`myproductlpinterop`:** Go **package** / directory name: lower case, no hyphens (typical
pattern: strip `-lp-interop` and join words).

> - **`MyProductLpInteropComponent`:** exported Go **variable** for the component singleton (used with `r.Register`).

Reviewer 2: Earlier in the doc. we kind of establish the pattern using `<...>` to denote the placeholder. We should be consistent and keep using the pattern.

Author: AI leftovers. Removed

> **IMPORTANT**
>
> When defining the `FIREWATCH_CONFIG` variable, please try to cover every step that is executed during your scenario, you can view the steps that are run by going to a recent run of your scenario and viewing the artifacts. Each step should have a folder for it's artifacts and logs that you can use to build your config. If you happen to miss one of the steps and a failure occurs in that step, it will cause the failure to not match any of the rules in the config. In that case, a generic bug for the failure will be filed in the `FIREWATCH_DEFAULT_JIRA_PROJECT` project.

## Component Readiness

> This section explains how layered-product results appear in **[Component Readiness](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main)** — the Sippy UI where LP interop health is tracked by OpenShift release and product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section explains how layered-product results appear in **[Component Readiness](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main)** (CR) — A Sippy-based tool where LP Interop test historical health is tracked.
```

Introduced the abbreviation at the first mentioned, then use it throughout the documentation afterwards.

> For an **end-to-end, multi-repository workflow** (sanitized clones, branch discipline, maintainer hand-offs), see the [**LP Interop CR agent playbook**](LP_Interop_CR_Agent_Playbook.md).

Reviewer 2: Please describe what is the workflow is for. Suddenly there is a mentioned about workflow, but not clearly explained what is the workflow is for.

Author: This discription should be in the other branch. It's a leftover that specifying a file that doesn't exist in this scropt. Resolved in the second branch/pr.

### General information

> - **Interop Component Readiness view:** The layered-product interop view is named `<OCPRelease>-LP-Interop`, where `<OCPRelease>` is the OpenShift minor version label Sippy expects for that stream (for example `4.22` → `4.22-LP-Interop`).

Reviewer 2: In the `Major.Minor` versioning system, such as `4.22`, the "Minor" version is specifically the `22`. In the context of OpenShift, a version number like `4.22` is typically referred to as a "minor release."

```suggestion
- **LP Interop Component Readiness view:** The Layered Product (LP) Interop Dashboard View is named `<OCPRelease>-LP-Interop`, where `<OCPRelease>` is the OpenShift Minor Release the LPs are installed on (Sippy groups the Dashboard View based on the OpenShift Core Platform (OCP) y-stream releases). For example, `OCP 4.22` based LPs will have Dashboard View named as `4.22-LP-Interop`.
```

>   - Open [Component Readiness](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main) with `?view=<OCPRelease>-LP-Interop`, or follow a bookmark such as [4.22-LP-Interop](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main?view=4.22-LP-Interop) for OCP 4.22.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Open [CR](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main), and click `View` on the top-right,
<img width="243" height="154" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9ea6300d-fada-4cf3-a612-74dcc60fa215" />
then select the desired Dashboard View `<OCPRelease>-LP-Interop`, or use a direct URL, such as [4.22-LP-Interop](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main?view=4.22-LP-Interop).
```

Reviewer: I clicked on the link and 'View 'in on top-left. Also if the image can be little bigger to help locate the View

<img width="1303" height="973" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/389b4864-aada-4aae-a1d2-b7624e750e1d" />

>   - Open [Component Readiness](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main) with `?view=<OCPRelease>-LP-Interop`, or follow a bookmark such as [4.22-LP-Interop](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main?view=4.22-LP-Interop) for OCP 4.22.

Reviewer: Earlier in the document, for example in TestGrid, and in general we use identifier `-lp-interop`  for job name and here it is `LP-Interop` I assume this just for Dashboard View name? Was it on purpose?  Can we request the same pattern for view or for clarify maybe have a different name altogether `<OCPRelease>-Interop-Dashboard`

Author: We have removed the inconsistent LP-Interop mentions. The view name will be changed.

  - **Where views are defined:** Supported releases and their view IDs are listed in Sippy’s [config/views.yaml](https://github.com/openshift/sippy/blob/main/config/views.yaml). Search for `component_readiness` entries whose names end in `-LP-Interop`; that file is the source of truth when choosing a `view=` query for a given OCP release.
  - **Release rotation:** When a new OpenShift minor ships, SHIP/TRT add the matching `<release>-LP-Interop` entry to `views.yaml` and Component Readiness moves its default spotlight forward. Layered-product teams do **not** need to request a brand-new Component Readiness view for every minor release.
- **Maintainers:** SHIP and TRT own this UI; contact `#forum-ocp-release-oversight` on Slack.

For scenario configuration that satisfies CR at the job level (cron, workflows, environment variables, JUnit suite mapping), follow [Make a Job CR-Compliant](../Scenario_Development/Scenario_Development_Guide.md#make-a-job-cr-compliant) in the Scenario Development Guide.

### Sippy

> This document is a **checklist for coding agents** (and humans) adding support in [Sippy](https://github.com/openshift/sippy) for a new **MY-CMP** product that publishes CI under the layered-product / lp-interop pattern (mapped JUnit suite like `lp-ocp-compat--<lpProductName>`, Prow jobs under `…-lp-interop-…`).

Reviewer: What is MY-CMP here, since this is its first instance, can you add some details

Author: Leftovers from the CR branch (#45), removed.

---

#### Prerequisites: gather required information

> Within the `openshift/release` repository, under CI Configuration files (`ci-operator/config/**/*.yaml`), confirm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the `openshift/release` repository, under CI Configuration files (`ci-operator/config/**/*.yaml`), confirm the following:
```

Reviewer 2: We need to point to the URL of the repository. There are multiple repository type out there.
```suggestion
Within the [openshift/release](https://github.com/openshift/release/) Git Hub Repository, under CI Configuration files (`ci-operator/config/**/*.yaml`), confirm the following:
```

> 1. **Mapped JUnit suite string** as CI emits it in imported JUnit from Prow. See [Map the JUnit tests output](../Scenario_Development/Scenario_Development_Guide.md#map-the-junit-tests-output) in the Scenario Development Guide for how CI produces that mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Mapped JUnit suite string**: Identify the exact string the CI emits in the imported JUnit results from Prow. See [Map the JUnit tests output](../Scenario_Development/Scenario_Development_Guide.md#map-the-junit-tests-output) in the Scenario Development Guide on how CI produces that mapping.
```

Reviewer 2: I would use the word `produces` rather than `emits` in this context. Just my 2 cents. Check with AI. Also why "exact" matching? Shouldn't we use prefix instead?
```suggestion
1. **JUnit Test Suite (TS) name**: Identify the TS name prefix in the JUnit results. See [Map the JUnit tests output](../Scenario_Development/Scenario_Development_Guide.md#map-the-junit-tests-output) in the Scenario Development Guide on how to add the prefix if the actual test do not produce TS with a consistent prefix.
```

But I actually wonder how TS name can be confirmed via CI Conf. file? I don't think it has any information about the TS names.

  - Often `lp-ocp-compat--<lpProductName>`, e.g. `lp-ocp-compat--OpenshiftPipelines`. It must match CI **exactly** (case-sensitive). See [Allow importing tests](#1-allow-importing-tests-pkgdbsuitesgo) below for how Sippy accepts suites via **`testSuitePatterns`**.

> 2. **Stable substring of periodic name**, e.g. `-lp-interop-cr- `. The variant registry matches **literal substrings** on the lowercased job name (first match wins).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Stable substring of periodic name**: Identify a stable substring within the periodic job name (e.g. `-lp-interop-cr- `). The variant registry matches **literal substrings** on the lowercased job name (first match wins).
```

Reviewer 2: The term `periodic name` appears without context and is quite vague. Please be disciplined in using the proper terminology to avoid confusion. In this context, we are referring to the CI Operator Job name. Are you certain this only handles periodic jobs?

Also, please be more specific regarding the "variant registry", perhaps "CR Variant Registry" is more accurate. When multiple systems or applications are involved, we need to be very specific; otherwise, someone new to the process will be very confused.

  - If **multiple** patterns are required (e.g., `-lp-interop-cr-acs` and `-lp-interop-cr-acs-latest`), add **separate** rows, ensuring the **more specific patterns precede the more general ones**.

#### Note for AI / automation assistants (Sippy)

Do **not** run any `make` commands (or substitute commands) in this repository on behalf of the requester. A maintainer must run them locally when noted below.

---

#### 1. Allow importing tests: `pkg/db/suites.go`

**File:** [`pkg/db/suites.go`](https://github.com/openshift/sippy/blob/main/pkg/db/suites.go)

**Slices:** **`testSuitePatterns`** (`[]*regexp.Regexp`) and **`testSuites`** (`[]string`)

> For **standard LP interop onboarding**, **do not** add product-specific suite strings to **`testSuites`**. Instead, rely on **`testSuitePatterns`**: ensure every suite-name prefix CI emits is covered by a regex. Today upstream includes LP-oriented patterns such as `^lp-chaos--`, `^lp-interop--`, and `^lp-ocp-compat--` (see [`testSuitePatterns` in `suites.go`](https://github.com/openshift/sippy/blob/main/pkg/db/suites.go#L80)). Therefore **match the existing `^lp-ocp-compat--` pattern** and require **no new row** in **`testSuites`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For **standard LP interop onboarding**, **do not** add product-specific suite strings to **`testSuites`**. Instead, rely on **`testSuitePatterns`**: ensure every suite-name prefix CI emits is covered by a regex. Current upstream patterns already include LP-oriented patterns such as `^lp-chaos--`, `^lp-interop--`, and `^lp-ocp-compat--` (see [`testSuitePatterns` in `suites.go`](https://github.com/openshift/sippy/blob/main/pkg/db/suites.go#L80)). As long as your CI output follows the **`^lp-ocp-compat--` pattern**, no new entry is required in this file.```

- **New prefix family:** If CI introduces suite names that **do not** match any existing pattern, add **`regexp.MustCompile(...)`** to **`testSuitePatterns`** rather than enumerating literals.
- **`testSuites` literals:** Still used for selected **legacy or non-regex** suite names (upstream examples include component-style entries such as `CNV-lp-interop`). Current onboarding routine does **not** touch this list.
- **ci-test-mapping:** Keep **`Matchers`** (**`Suite`** / **`SuiteRegEx`**) aligned with the suite strings CI actually emits; Sippy import coverage is via **`testSuitePatterns`**, not by duplicating every suite string in **`testSuites`**.

Suites that match **neither** patterns **nor** the explicit list are **not** imported into Sippy’s DB.

---

#### 2. Map Prow job names → `LayeredProduct`: `pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go`

**File:** `pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go`
**Function:** `setLayeredProduct`

> In `setLayeredProduct`, append a row to the job-name substring → `LayeredProduct` mapping table:

Reviewer: In the `setLayeredProduct `function, append a new row to the mapping table that links job-name substrings to the corresponding `LayeredProduct `variant:

```go
{"-lp-interop-cr-my-cmp", "lp-interop-my-cmp"},
```

**Rules:**

- **`product` value:** always use the **`lp-interop-…`** form (lowercase, hyphenated), e.g. `lp-interop-my-cmp`. This is what Component Readiness views filter on.
- **`substring`:** must appear in real periodic job names after lowercasing. Align with CI naming (often `-lp-interop-cr- `).
- **Order matters:** the slice is scanned **top to bottom**; the **first** match wins. Place **narrow** patterns (e.g. product-specific) **above** broad patterns so lp-interop jobs are not misclassified.

> **WARNING** (`pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go`, `setLayeredProduct`)
>

> > That mapping table is evaluated in **slice order**: the **first** substring match wins, and later rows are ignored for that job. Do **not** append an LP-specific row **below** a broader row that can still match the same periodic name, for example `{"-virt", "virt"}` vs. `{"-lp-interop-cnv", "virt"}` and similar catch-alls. Misordering silently misclassifies jobs in Component Readiness. Keep narrow lp-interop rows **above** generic mappings.

Reviewer: Because the mapping table is evaluated in **slice order**, the first successful substring match stops further evaluation for that job. **Do not** append a specific LP row below a broader row that could match the same name (e.g., placing `{"-lp-interop-cnv", "virt"}` below a generic `{"-virt", "virt"}`). Misordering results in jobs being "swallowed" by generic categories, causing them to disappear from the Component Readiness interop dashboard.

Author: Accepted and fixed (it's not disappearing from the dashboard, but matching the wrong component). Thanks.

---

#### 3. Include the product in LP-Interop views: `config/views.yaml`

**File:** `config/views.yaml`

For each Component Readiness view named like **`*-LP-Interop`** (e.g. `4.22-LP-Interop`, `4.21-LP-Interop`) that lists layered products under:

```yaml
variant_options:
  include_variants:
    LayeredProduct:
      - lp-interop-...
```

add:

```yaml
      - lp-interop-my-cmp
```

Use the **same string** as in `setLayeredProduct`’s `product` field. Keep the list **alphabetically sorted** unless the file already uses a different convention for that block.

**Note:** Some older views (for example certain `4.20-*` LP views) list only a subset of products. Add the product entry only alongside blocks where other `lp-interop-*` products already appear.

---

#### 4. Tests and variant snapshot (do not run `make` here)

##### 4a. Unit test (recommended)

**File:** `pkg/variantregistry/ocp_test.go`
**Test:** `TestVariantSyncer`

Add a case with a **realistic** periodic job name for MY-CMP (including release and network tokens if needed) and assert `VariantPlatform`, `VariantLayeredProduct`, etc., match what `IdentifyVariants` returns.

##### 4b. Variant snapshot

> **Test:** `TestVariantsSnapshot` in `pkg/variantregistry/ocp_test.go` compares live variants for all jobs in `config/openshift.yaml` against **`pkg/variantregistry/snapshot.yaml`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Test:** `TestVariantsSnapshot` in `pkg/variantregistry/ocp_test.go` validates live variants for all jobs in `config/openshift.yaml` against a static baseline in **`pkg/variantregistry/snapshot.yaml`**.
```

After **any** change to variant logic in `pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go` (including `setLayeredProduct` / `setPlatform`), that snapshot **must** be regenerated or the test will fail.

**Agents must not run `make`.** Have a maintainer run the command below **after** the Go changes are merged or applied locally:

```bash
make update-variants
```

> That target builds `./sippy` and runs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What this command does:
It compiles the ./sippy binary and executes a snapshot refresh:
```

```bash
./sippy variants snapshot --config ./config/openshift.yaml
```

> which rewrites `pkg/variantregistry/snapshot.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process overwrites `pkg/variantregistry/snapshot.yaml` with the updated classification data.
```

> > Expect snapshot tests to fail until `make update-variants` has been run by a maintainer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[!NOTE]
It is expected that snapshot tests will fail in CI until a maintainer has performed the make update-variants sync.
```

---

> #### 6. What **not** to do

Reviewer: Should this be 5? 
```suggestion
#### 5. What **not** to do
```

## Component Readiness

This section explains how Layered Product (LP) results appear in **[Component Readiness](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main)** (CR) — A Sippy-based tool where LP Interop test historical health is tracked.

### General information

- **LP Interop Component Readiness view:** The LP Interop Dashboard View is named `<OCPRelease>-LP-Interop`, where `<OCPRelease>` is the OpenShift Minor Release the LPs are installed on (Sippy groups the Dashboard View based on the OpenShift Core Platform (OCP) y-stream releases). For example, `OCP 4.22` based LPs will have Dashboard View named as `4.22-LP-Interop`.
  - Open [CR](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main), and click `View` on the top-right:

    ![Component Readiness View dropdown](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9ea6300d-fada-4cf3-a612-74dcc60fa215)

    Then select the desired Dashboard View `<OCPRelease>-LP-Interop`, or use a direct URL, such as [4.22-LP-Interop](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main?view=4.22-LP-Interop).

>   - **Where views are defined:** Supported releases and their view IDs are listed in Sippy’s [config/views.yaml](https://github.com/openshift/sippy/blob/main/config/views.yaml). Search for `component_readiness` entries whose names end in `-LP-Interop`; that file is the source of truth when choosing a `view=` query for a given OCP release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Where views are defined:** Supported releases and their view IDs are listed in Sippy’s [config/views.yaml](https://github.com/openshift/sippy/blob/main/config/views.yaml). Search for `component_readiness` entries with names ending in `-LP-Interop`; this file serves as the source of truth when selecting the correct `view=` query for a specific OCP release.
```

>   - **Release rotation:** When a new OpenShift minor ships, SHIP/TRT add the matching `<release>-LP-Interop` entry to `views.yaml` and Component Readiness moves its default spotlight forward. Layered Product teams do **not** need to request a brand-new Component Readiness view for every minor release.

Reviewer 2: Please stick with the terminology established earlier in the document to maintain consistency. I have also removed unnecessary details to keep it concise.
```suggestion
  - **Release rotation:** When a new OpenShift Minor Release is shipped, The Release Team (TRT) adds the matching `<ocpMinorRelease>-LP-Interop` entry to `config/views.yaml` automatically.
```

> - **Maintainers:** SHIP and TRT own this UI; contact `#forum-ocp-release-oversight` on Slack.

Reviewer 2: Please note our team structure: SHIP is the larger organization, and TRT is the specialized team within SHIP that manages this tooling. Referring to "SHIP & TRT" together is redundant.
```suggestion
  - **Maintainers:** Sippy and CR are maintained by TRT. Use `#forum-ocp-release-oversight` on Slack to contact them.
```

> For scenario configuration that satisfies CR at the job level (cron, workflows, environment variables, JUnit suite mapping), follow [Make a Job CR-Compliant](../Scenario_Development/Scenario_Development_Guide.md#make-a-job-cr-compliant) in the Scenario Development Guide.

Reviewer 2: Please use the established terminology. Sippy and CR are focused on the CI Operator; "scenario" is not a term used within those tools.
```suggestion
To properly configure the CI Operator configuration for a job so that it is parsed by CR correctly, please refer to [Make a Job CR-Compliant](../Scenario_Development/Scenario_Development_Guide.md#make-a-job-cr-compliant) in the Scenario Development Guide.
```

### Sippy

> This document is a **checklist for coding agents** (and humans) adding support in [Sippy](https://github.com/openshift/sippy) for a new **MY-CMP** product that publishes CI under the layered product / lp-interop pattern (mapped JUnit suite like `lp-ocp-compat--<lpProductName>`, Prow jobs under `…-lp-interop-…`).

Reviewer 2: I thought we agreed not to distinguish between AI agents and humans. This distinction seems to be causing the AI to generate separate sections in other documents.

Please use generally accepted abbreviations. In the tech world, `CMP` is typically associated with "compare" rather than "component." I suggest using `MY-COMP` instead. 

We have established the use of `lp-ocp-compat--` as the prefix for JUnit TestSuite names for legacy tests, and `lp-interop--` for real Interop Tests (as part of the Cross Product Lifecycle initiative). Please reflect this in the documentation. I previously requested that you create separate views for `LP-OCP-Compat` and move all single LP tests into that view.

There is no need to repeat links multiple times, and the header paragraph should remain high-level without excessive detail.

```suggestion
This document is a **checklist** to onboard a CI Operator Job to `Sippy` for a new LP **MY-COMP**.
```

---

#### Prerequisites: gather required information

Within the `openshift/release` repository, under CI Configuration files (`ci-operator/config/**/*.yaml`), confirm:

1. **Mapped JUnit suite string** as CI emits it in imported JUnit from Prow. See [Map the JUnit tests output](../Scenario_Development/Scenario_Development_Guide.md#map-the-junit-tests-output) in the Scenario Development Guide for how CI produces that mapping.

>   - Often `lp-ocp-compat--<lpProductName>`, e.g. `lp-ocp-compat--OpenshiftPipelines`. It must match CI **exactly** (case-sensitive). See [Allow importing tests](#1-allow-importing-tests-pkgdbsuitesgo) below for how Sippy accepts suites via **`testSuitePatterns`**.

Reviewer 2: Is this part of item no. 1? Please be mindful of the indentation; if this is a sub-step of no. 1, it needs to be indented one level further.

2. **Stable substring of periodic name**, e.g. `-lp-interop-cr- `. The variant registry matches **literal substrings** on the lowercased job name (first match wins).

>   - If **multiple** patterns are required (e.g., `-lp-interop-cr-acs` and `-lp-interop-cr-acs-latest`), add **separate** rows, ensuring the **more specific patterns precede the more general ones**.

Reviewer 2: There is an indentation issue here as well. Additionally, this section may be too detailed for this context; please consider moving it to the other document.

## Component Readiness

[Component Readiness](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/component_readiness/main) (CR) is a dashboard within
[Sippy](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/) ([Source Code](https://github.com/openshift/sippy/)) that tracks historical test health across OpenShift
CI runs. CR surfaces regressions by comparing a sample Release window against a baseline, broken down by variant (platform, network, architecture, and Layered
Product (LP)). LP is any Red Hat product that is tested for compatibility with OpenShift. CI Operator Job run results for LP-OCP Compatibility Test Suites (TS)
appear in CR once the job is registered in both [openshift/sippy](https://github.com/openshift/sippy/) and
[openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping](https://github.com/openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping). Individual Test Cases (TC) that appear within those TSs are mapped to CR
Components and Capabilities by `ci-test-mapping`.

### Onboarding Inputs

Placeholders in this section use the worked examples below.

| Input                                                 | Worked Example                                                                    |

> |-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

Reviewer 3: The Onboarding Inputs table defines 14 placeholders with subtle casing and format transformations between them — `<LP-name>` (capitalized, hyphenated), `<lpName>` (lower-cased slug), `<lpComp>` (Go package, no hyphens), `LPmyproductComponent` (PascalCase compound). Each has different rules, and a single casing error would cause silent failure (tests just don't appear in CR, no error message).

Consider reducing to 3–4 primary inputs (LP display name, LP version, upstream repo, OCP release) and adding a **"Naming Derivation"** subsection or table that shows how all other values are mechanically derived. For example:

| Derived Value | Rule | From `My-product` |
|---|---|---|
| `<lpName>` | lowercase `<LP-name>` | `my-product` |
| `<lpComp>` | strip hyphens, prefix `lp` | `lpmyproduct` |
| TS prefix | `lp-ocp-compat--<LP-name>` | `lp-ocp-compat--My-product` |
| ... | ... | ... |

This makes the transformation rules explicit rather than requiring onboarders to reverse-engineer them from 14 worked examples.

Reviewer 2: Unfortunately, this is the reality. The `<lpName>` is NOT derived from `<LP-name>`. For example, Service Mesh uses `servicemesh` for `<lpName>` and `LP-Service-mesh` for `<LP-name>`. Changing `servicemesh` would require buy-in from the LP team.

Sadly, this documentation is an afterthought. We have already made a lot of last-minute changes over the past two weeks and pulled a lot of strings with TRT to minimize these naming variations. Given the timeframe available to us, this is the best we can come up with. It's not ideal, I have to admit, but sometimes we just have to play the hand we're dealt :(.

| LP Product Name (`<LP-name>`)                         | `My-product`                                                                      |
| LP Name Slug (`<lpName>`)                             | `my-product`                                                                      |
| LP Upstream Test Repo (`<lpOrg>/<lpRepo>`)            | `myorg/myrepo`                                                                    |
| LP Upstream Test Repo Branch (`<lpBranch>`)           | `main`                                                                            |
| Layered Product Version (`<lpVer>`)                   | `lpGA`                                                                            |
| OpenShift Release (`<ocpRelease>`)                    | `4.22`                                                                            |
| CI Operator Job Conf. file                            | `ci-operator/config/myorg/myrepo/myorg-myrepo-main__lpGA-lp-ocp-compat.yaml`      |

> | CI Operator Job Conf. Test Variant (`<testVariants>`) | `aws`                                                                             |

Reviewer 3: The worked example file path (`myorg-myrepo-main__lpGA-lp-ocp-compat.yaml`) does not contain an `ocp-4.22` segment, but the Periodic CI Operator Job name on line 214 includes `ocp-4.22`. Line 311 states the job name is "generated from the CI Operator Job Conf. file path and the `.tests[].as` value," and line 337 requires the job name MUST contain `-ocp-<ocpRelease>-`.

An onboarder following this worked example file path will produce a job name without the OCP release segment, which would break the `setLayeredProduct()` sub-string match.

If the OCP release belongs in the file path variant (as lines 429 and 433–434 suggest), the file path should be updated:

```suggestion
| CI Operator Job Conf. file                            | `ci-operator/config/myorg/myrepo/myorg-myrepo-main__ocp-4.22-lpGA-lp-ocp-compat.yaml`      |
```

If instead the OCP release is injected into the job name by some other mechanism (e.g., `.releases` config), please document that mechanism — currently the document implies the file path is the sole source.

Reviewer 2: I now include `<ocpRelease>` in all examples. Good point on that.

> If instead the OCP release is injected into the job name by some other mechanism (e.g., .releases config), please document that mechanism — currently the document implies the file path is the sole source.

The `ci-operator-prowgen` tool relies on the configuration file's name and the `.tests[].as`: field to generate the job name, completely independent of the releases payload definitions inside the file.

in the table above. The [openshift/sippy](https://github.com/openshift/sippy) and [openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping](https://github.com/openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping)
PRs both depend on this configuration being in place and producing correct JUnit output before they take effect.

The CI Operator Job Conf. must satisfy three requirements:

 1. The generated CI Operator Job name must contain the sub-string `-<lpVer>-lp-ocp-compat-cr--<lpName>-` so that `setLayeredProduct()` in Sippy correctly
    assigns the `LayeredProduct` CR Variant label.
 2. The `DR__RP__CR_COMP_NAME` Environment Variable must be set to `lp-ocp-compat--<LP-name>` in the `.tests[].steps.env` block so that JUnit output uses the
    correct `<testsuite name="...">` prefix.
 3. The CI Operator job MUST run at least twice per day. CR requires a certain minimum set of samples for its statistical formula to reach a sufficiently high
    confidence level.

----

#### Job Name Pattern

The CI Operator Job name is generated from the CI Operator Job Conf. file path and the `.tests[].as` value (the test's short Job name). Three possibilities

> cover the standard LP OCP Compat use cases, all producing the same `-<lpVer>-lp-ocp-compat-cr--<lpName>-` sub-string, satisfying the `setLayeredProduct()`

Reviewer 3: The three job name patterns are presented as equal alternatives, but Pattern 3 already hints at being a fallback ("when the other two patterns cannot be used as the file name"). New onboarders unfamiliar with the history won't know which to pick.

Consider marking Pattern 1 (dedicated `lp-ocp-compat` variant file) as the recommended default for new onboardings, and framing Patterns 2 and 3 as alternatives for cases where the LP already has existing CI configuration that constrains the file naming. Something like:

```
**Recommended (new onboardings):** Use Pattern 1 — a dedicated variant file.
**Alternative (existing variant file):** Use Pattern 2 when the LP already has a variant file that cannot be renamed.
**Fallback:** Use Pattern 3 only when neither Pattern 1 nor 2 can be used.
```

This avoids restructuring the section while giving onboarders a clear starting point.

Reviewer 2: Actually #1 & #2 are recommended of new onboarding. It is up to LP how they want to structure their CI Conf. files. The #1, isolate the work into a separate files, while #2 is consolidated approach. Only #3 is the actual "fallback".

sub-string match.

 1. **Dedicated `lp-ocp-compat` CI Operator Job Conf. Variant file:**

  - CI Operator Job Conf. file path: `ci-operator/config/<lpOrg>/<lpRepo>/<lpOrg>-<lpRepo>-<lpBranch>__<lpVariants>-<lpVer>-lp-ocp-compat.yaml`

>   - Set `.tests[].as: cr--<lpName>--<testVariants>`

Reviewer 3: `<lpVariants>` is used in all three Job Name Pattern file paths (lines 317, 322, 327) and the Sippy Prerequisites example (line 429), but it's not defined in the Onboarding Inputs table (lines 200–218), which defines every other angle-bracket placeholder in the document.

An onboarder cannot derive the correct file path from the pattern without knowing what `<lpVariants>` should contain. This also connects to the `ocp-4.22` inconsistency on line 208 — if `<lpVariants>` includes `ocp-<ocpRelease>`, the worked example file path would produce the expected job name.

Consider adding a row to the Onboarding Inputs table:

| Input | Worked Example |
|---|---|
| CI Operator Job Conf. Variants (`<lpVariants>`) | `ocp-4.22` |

Also clarify how to handle an empty `<lpVariants>` — the pattern `__<lpVariants>-<lpVer>` is ambiguous when the segment is empty (does it become `__-lpGA` or `__lpGA`?).

Reviewer 2: Good point. I re-work the appropriate section.

            "${_fURL[@]}" \
    https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RedHatQE/OpenShift-LP-QE--Tools/refs/heads/main/libs/bash/ci-operator/interop/common/ExitTrap--PostProcessPrep.sh
        )"; trap '
            LP_IO__ET_PPP__NEW_TS_NAME="${DR__RP__CR_COMP_NAME}--%s" \
                ExitTrap--PostProcessPrep junit--<testName>.xml
        ' EXIT
    fi
    ```

    **Note:**
    - This script can either be in CI Operator Step Script or the CI Operator Job Conf. file `.tests[].steps.test[].commands` block.
    - Ensure `MAP_TESTS` and `DR__RP__CR_COMP_NAME` are declared in the `.ref.env` block of the Step's CI Operator Step Conf. file
      (`ci-operator/step-registry/**/*-ref.yaml`).
    - The `<testName>` must be unique within the CI Operator Step; consult the Step author for the correct value (preferred), or alternatively use the
      `.ref.as` value from the CI Operator Step Conf. file.

Commit the CI Operator Job Conf. file change in a PR against the `main` branch of [openshift/release](https://github.com/openshift/release) (for example,
`ci-operator/config/myorg/myrepo/myorg-myrepo-main-lpGA-lp-ocp-compat.yaml`).

> 

Reviewer 3: The example file path uses `-` between the branch and variant, but CI Operator config filenames require `__` (double underscore) as the branch/variant separator. The correct form already appears in the Onboarding Inputs table on line 208. Without `__`, `ci-operator-prowgen` would parse the entire segment after the repo name as the branch, producing an incorrect job name.

```suggestion
`ci-operator/config/myorg/myrepo/myorg-myrepo-main__lpGA-lp-ocp-compat.yaml`).
```

----

### Sippy

The steps in this section register a CI Operator Job in Sippy so that its Runs appear in CR. Open a PR against [openshift/sippy](https://github.com/openshift/sippy), as summarized in the table above.

The following changes are required:

 1. Ensuring the BigQuery query pattern covers the CI Operator Job (`pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go`: `LoadExpectedJobVariants()`).
 2. Mapping the CI Operator Job name to an `Owner` variant label (`pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go`: `setOwner()`).
 3. Mapping the CI Operator Job name to a `LayeredProduct` variant label (`pkg/variantregistry/ocp.go`: `setLayeredProduct()`).
 4. Including that label in the LP OCP Compat Dashboard Views (`config/views.yaml`).
 5. Regenerating the variant snapshot (`pkg/variantregistry/snapshot.yaml`).
 6. Allowing the TSs to be imported into Sippy's database (`pkg/db/suites.go`).

For standard LP OCP Compat onboardings that follow the `periodic-ci-<org>-<repo>-<branch>-*-<lpVer>-lp-ocp-compat-cr--<lpName>--*` Job naming convention, Steps

> 1, 2, and 6 can often be skipped (see each Step for details).

Reviewer 3: For standard LP OCP Compat onboardings, only Steps 3, 4, and 5 are required — the other three all say "skip this step." This means every onboarder reads through 6 steps to discover that half don't apply.

Consider restructuring as:
1. A **"Standard Onboarding"** fast path covering only Steps 3 (LayeredProduct mapping), 4 (views.yaml), and 5 (snapshot update)
2. An **"Advanced: Non-standard Job Names"** section documenting Steps 1, 2, and 6 for edge cases

This would let the common-case onboarder read ~50% less material. The same restructuring could apply to CI Test Mapping Step 1, which has the same "skip for standard" pattern.

Reviewer 2: I think this will bloat the document size. The target audience for this doc consists of software engineers (and AIs, actually). It is reasonable to expect them to understand that unless they want to create their own custom View, certain steps can be skipped.

CI runs. CR surfaces regressions by comparing a sample Release window against a baseline, broken down by variant (platform, network, architecture, and Layered
Product (LP)). LP is any Red Hat product that is tested for compatibility with OpenShift. CI Operator Job run results for LP-OCP Compatibility Test Suites (TS)
appear in CR once the job is registered in both [openshift/sippy](https://github.com/openshift/sippy/) and
[openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping](https://github.com/openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping). Individual Test Cases (TC) that appear within those TSs are mapped to CR
Components and Capabilities by `ci-test-mapping`.

### Onboarding Inputs

Placeholders in this section use the worked examples below.

| Input                                                 | Worked Example                                                                    |
|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| LP Product Name (`<LP-name>`)                         | `My-product`                                                                      |

> | LP Name Slug (`<lpName>`)                             | `my-product`                                                                      |

Reviewer: I am not sure if using `My-product` is good example. As the `my `and `hypen(-)` is confusing.
You have used `My-product` `my-product` `myproduct` in this table.

Does using `ACS `or a previously used productname in this doc make more sense?

Reviewer 2: The idea is to tell how a placeholder should be replaced. Using all lowercase does not look good on Display. So for Display string, we uses the `<LP-name>` form, indicating using uppercase is acceptable, even all capital is find. For example, `LP-ACS` will display better than `LP-acs`. 

At the end of the day, the real value of `<LP-name>` is not that important, as the usage are only on Display names. If someone decided to use `LP-foo`, `LP-FOO`, `LP-Foo`, `LP-Foo-Bar` or whatever, **as long as** the replacement is consistent, it will work actually.

Similarly the real value of `<lpName>` can actually be either `foo-bar` or `fooBar`, as long as it is consistent replacement.

That's why the placeholder use is in form of `<....>`, where the rule is a bit relaxed.

For placeholder where the rule is strict, the explicit note on the placeholder replacement inside boilerplate is given with very clear direction. For example:
```
`My-product`: hyphenated capitalized on first letter product name.
```

And if still confused, we can always (and supposedly ask AI). This is why the CR section of this document has been subjected to iterations of AI Reader Agent with goal the Reader Agent understand in one pass. Both me & Ori has passed this goal several times. So, I'm not worry about it.

On the side note, we need to a bit careful though. LLM is non-deterministic in nature. It's very much possible that we have a passing iteration and to fail when we re-do.

Author: @sg-rh actually, using the two worded example is better, since agnets handle LPs with unambiguous words well (like `CNV/ACS/OADP` etc.).
The more complex case is putting the two words in the correct schemas.

This is also why I tested against a more complex input of: `MPEX-operator`,
which is mixing between the two worded registered proucts:
`My-product` (for example `Service-mesh`), and these in uppercase.

  the pattern `LP--<LP-name>` (for example, `LP--My-product`). Run `./ci-test-mapping jira-verify` (see Note below) to confirm this value resolves to a real
  Jira Component before opening the PR. By convention this should match the above `.Component.Name`.
- `.Component.Matchers`: Defines the TC ownership matching rules for this Component.
  - `.Component.Matchers[].SuiteRegEx`: Matches a RegEx pattern against the TS name. Use this for the standard LP TS prefixes (`^lp-ocp-compat--my-product--`,
    `^lp-interop--my-product--`, `^lp-chaos--my-product--`).

Boilerplate:
> **Instructions:**
>
> - Replace the following placeholders:
>   - `lpmyproduct`: lp-prefixed lower-cased Go Package name.
>   - `myproduct`: non-hyphenated lower-cased product name.
>   - `My-product`: hyphenated capitalized on first letter product name.
>   - `LPmyproductComponent`: compound string `'LP' + {myproduct} + 'Component'`; for `{myproduct}` placeholder, see above.
>
```go
package lpmyproduct

import (
    "regexp"

    v1 "github.com/openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping/pkg/api/types/v1"
    "github.com/openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping/pkg/config"
)

type Component struct {
    *config.Component
}

> var LPmyproductComponent = Component{

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var LPMyProductComponent = Component{
```

Reviewer 2: The proposal cause it will not be easy to see the prefix. Unfortunately TRT run a strict Go linter and do not allow `_` to be used, even thought it's legal in Go. So we are stuck with Hybrid Case mode.

The boilerplate comes with clear instruction, and it is very well defined on how to handle `LPmyproductComponent`.

  as the CR Component label in the CR Dashboard. Use the `LP--<LP-name>` form (for example, `LP--My-product`).
- `.Component.DefaultJiraComponent`: The [`OCPBUGS`](https://redhat.atlassian.net/jira/software/c/projects/OCPBUGS/components) Jira Component name, following
  the pattern `LP--<LP-name>` (for example, `LP--My-product`). Run `./ci-test-mapping jira-verify` (see Note below) to confirm this value resolves to a real
  Jira Component before opening the PR. By convention this should match the above `.Component.Name`.
- `.Component.Matchers`: Defines the TC ownership matching rules for this Component.
  - `.Component.Matchers[].SuiteRegEx`: Matches a RegEx pattern against the TS name. Use this for the standard LP TS prefixes (`^lp-ocp-compat--my-product--`,
    `^lp-interop--my-product--`, `^lp-chaos--my-product--`).

Boilerplate:
> **Instructions:**
>
> - Replace the following placeholders:
>   - `lpmyproduct`: lp-prefixed lower-cased Go Package name.
>   - `myproduct`: non-hyphenated lower-cased product name.
>   - `My-product`: hyphenated capitalized on first letter product name.

> >   - `LPmyproductComponent`: exported var name; `LP` + `myproduct` + `Component` with no acronym capitalization (for `MPEX-operator`, `LPmpexoperatorComponent`,

Reviewer 2: This not is not explaining Go concept of var. Stick with explaining how the a placeholder should be replaced.
```suggestion
>   - `LPmyproductComponent`: compound string `'LP' + {myproduct} + 'Component'`; for `{myproduct}` placeholder, see above.
```

as example.

The file defines the CR Component Capabilities:

- The default Capabilities are sufficient.

Boilerplate:
> **Instructions:**
>
> - Replace the following placeholder:
>   - `lpmyproduct`: lp-prefixed lower-cased Go Package name.
>
```go
package lpmyproduct

import (
    v1 "github.com/openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping/pkg/api/types/v1"
    "github.com/openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping/pkg/util"
)

func identifyCapabilities(test *v1.TestInfo) []string {
    capabilities := util.DefaultCapabilities(test)
    return capabilities
}
```

----

#### Step 3 -- Register the Component

**File:** [pkg/registry/registry.go](https://github.com/openshift-eng/ci-test-mapping/blob/main/pkg/registry/registry.go)

**Function:** `NewComponentRegistry()`

Add the import and `Register` call alongside the other LP Component registrations:

Boilerplate:
> **Instructions:**
>
> - Replace the following placeholders:
>   - `lpmyproduct`: lp-prefixed lower-cased Go Package name.
>   - `myproduct`: non-hyphenated lower-cased product name.
>   - `My-product`: hyphenated capitalized on first letter product name.

> >   - `LPmyproductComponent`: exported var name; `LP` + `myproduct` + `Component` with no acronym capitalization (for `MPEX-operator`, `LPmpexoperatorComponent`,

Reviewer 2: This not is not explaining Go concept of var. Stick with explaining how the a placeholder should be replaced.
```suggestion
>   - `LPmyproductComponent`: compound string `'LP' + {myproduct} + 'Component'`; for `{myproduct}` placeholder, see above.
```
